Well we don't know the idea of the item that we want to delete out of our cart.
So inside of our post quest handler we're going to first begin by finding the cart that belongs to a
given user.
We're then going to iterate through its list of items as soon as we find an item with the I.D. equal
to Red Dot body dot item I.D. We're going to want to remove that out of this items array and then eventually
save this cart back to our carts repository.
So let's get to it back over here.
I'm going to first get that item I.D. assigned to a variable so I'll say item I.D. is racked up body
will then retrieve our cart out of our carts repository it's all say cart is a weight Hertz repo not
get one with rec not session dot cart I.D. remember cart ideas the cart that belongs to this user we're
going to reach into our repo and find a cart with that given I.D. we then assign it to the cart variable
so then after that we need to iterate over the list of items that are inside this cart as soon as we
find an item with an idea matching that item I.D. We want to remove that item out of the items array
so to do so we can use a filter statement very effectively they'll say const items is heart items dot
filter now remember how a filter statement works we're gonna pass on a function that is going to be
called with every element inside of the items array then inside of this function we're going to return
either true or false if we return true that means that we want to add that item to a brand new array
if return false that means forget this item altogether and do not add it to this new items array so
in other words we need to return true if the idea of this item is not equal to item I.D. So to express
that will say if item dot I.D. is not equal to item I.D. notice how there's a dot right here not a dot
right here.
So this is the item idea that is coming out of our request body this is the idea that is coming from
the item that we are iterating over so if those things are not equal to each other we're going to return
true.
And so that means that we would want to keep this item inside of this new items array that we are generating
okay.
So now we've got this list of items with the appropriate item filtered out.
Well then update our cart which we can do within a weight carts repo that update remember how our update
function works we can get a quick reminder inside of our repository dot j ust file inside of here we
can find updates somewhere here it is right here.
The first argument is the idea the record we want you update second argument is gonna be an object that
has the attributes so we want to replace on the target record so to update our cart we'll pass in the
cart I.D. So rec not session that card I.D. and the second argument is going to be the update we want
to make.
So we want to replace this carts items array with the items array that we just put together from the
filter statement.
So the update we will make is items is items and as usual we can condense that down to just be items
like so.
All right.
Well this looks pretty good before we can test it.
Remember we eventually have to send some kind of response back to the user.
So in this case after receiving this post request I'm going to redirect the user back to our main cart
listing page at slash cart so I'll do a rez dot redirect of slash cart I'll save this I'm gonna flip
back over I'm going to refresh the page and we'll do a quick test.
It's going to click on that red X.
And sure enough that item disappears instantly I can refresh the page and it is still gone.
So I can delete pants I can delete gloves.
And there we go back to square one okay.
So I'd say this looks pretty good.
And that is pretty much the full application.
There is one last fix we need to make however if we go back to our main products listing and click on
Add to Cart.
Right now we just get that text that says Product added to cart.
That is of course not super ideal.
So in order to fix this up let's go take a look at our post request handler for dealing with adding
an item.
Here it is right here so after we add an item to the user's cart rather than sending back that plain
text right there let's instead redirect them to the cart listing as well.
It's all changed the resort sent to Red Dot redirect to slash cart it will save that and do another
quick test can come back over I'm going to try to add khaki pants and as soon as I do I get redirected
to the shopping cart so I can very easily start to delete items go back to products add a new item see
it listed there's floral dress delete it and so on I can add floral dress twice and I'll see the quantity
go up to 2 and I'll have 50 dollars for that line item and I can remove it as well.
So that's pretty much it.
That is our whole application.
Now I know putting the scene together took just about forever but I didn't get the in the day.
It was definitely worth it.
And we learned a lot along the way.
Let's take a pause right here.
There's still some other stuff for us to discuss so let's continue in the next video.